# CardGame
Check it out! Cards!

The *Cards* proejct contains the class libraries for this project.  *CardGameConsoleApp* is a text based example implementation.  *VisualCards* is a (Windows only) Graphical interface for a card game.

## Card
Represents a playing card.

### Properties
* MyValue : Card.Value          The Value of this card.
* MySuit : Card.Suit            The Suit of this card.

### Constructor
* Card(Suit suit, Value value)  Create an instance of a Card with the given suit and value.

### Methods
* ToString() : string           Get a text representation of this card.
* CompareTo(Card other) : int   Implement the IComparableInterface, returns the difference in Values of this card and another.
* Equals(Card other) : bool     Determine if two cards are Identical suit and value.
* EqualValue(Card other) : bool Determine if two cards have the same value.

## Card.Suit
Represents the Suit of a card.  This is a somewhat odd class because the only **public** members are `static Suit` and the constructor is **private** so you can't even declare your own Suits.

### Properties
* *title* : string              Title of this Suit.  (private)

### Constructor
* *Suit(string title)*          Create a new Suit. (private)

### Methods
* ToString() : string           Return the Title of this Suit.
* Equals(object other) : bool   Check to see if this is the same Suit as another.  If the provided object is not a Suit, returns false.

### Static Members
* Spades : Suit                 The suit "Spades"
* Hearts : Suit                 The suit "Hearts"
* Clubs : Suit                  The suit "Clubs"
* Diamonds : Suit               The suit "Diamonds"
* Suits : List<Suit>            All the Suits in a list for your itterating pleasure.

## Card.Value
Similar to the Card.Suit class, this helper class has no public properties or constructor.  However, it does have a slew of arithmetic operators defined so that you can compare or use this for scoring a card game.

### Properties
* *value* : int                 The numeric point value of this card.  (private)
* *title* : string              The text name of this value (e.g "Jack").  (private)

### Constructor
* *Value(int value, string title)* Create a new Value (private)

### Methods
* ToString() : string           Get the Title of this Value.
* Equals(object other) : bool   Check if two Values are the same
* GetHashCode() : int           Don't worry about this, it's autogenerated~

### Operators
All arithmetic comparison operators are implemented referencing the `int value` property.
Additionally, the + and - operators are implemented for any combination of `Value` and `int` data types allowing statements such as `int score = Card.Value.Jack + 5;`

### Static Members
* AceLow  (1)
* Two     (2)
* Three   (3)
* Four    (4)
* Five    (5)
* Six     (6)
* Seven   (7)
* Eight   (8)
* Nine    (9)
* Ten     (10)
* Jack    (11)
* Queen   (12)
* King    (13)
* AceHigh (14)

* AceLowValues : List<Value>          Values in order from AceLow -> King
* AceHighValues : List<Value>         Values in order from Two -> AceHigh

## Deck
A Deck represents a collection of playing cards.  The Constructor produces a standard 52 card deck with one of each suit-value combination.

### Properties
* *TheDeck* : List<Card>              All the cards in the deck in an ordered list. (private)
* Count : int                         Accessor for TheDeck.Count, how many cards are in the deck currently.
* *myShuffler* : IShuffleAlgorithm    This is an interesting property.  It could be any class which implements the IShuffleAlgorithm interface.  All it is used for is its `Shuffle()` method.

### Constructor
* Deck(bool aceHigh = false, IShuffleAlgorithm shuffleAlgorithm = null)
                                      The Deck constructor has two optional parameters.  aceHigh is assumed to be false unless you tell it otherwise.  Similarly, if you do not provide a specific shuffleAlgorithm, it defaults to a `RifleShuffler`
                                      
### Methods
* Add(Card card)                      Add an individual card to the bottom of the deck.
* AddRange(IEnumerable<Card> cards)   Add a bunch of cards to the bottom of the deck.
* DealOne() : Card                    Remove the top card from the deck and return it as the result.
* Deal(int count) : List<Card>        Remove the top `count` cards from the deck and return them in a List.  Throws a `DeckException` if there aren't enough cards in the deck.
* Shuffle()                           Shuffle this deck of cards using the assigned `myShuffler` algorithm.

## IShuffleAlgorithm (interface)
Abstraction for use with Shuffle algorithms.  It isn't important *HOW* an algorithm accomplishes shuffling, as long as it adheres to this standard interface.

### Methods
* Shuffle(ref List<Card> deck) : void
                                      Classes implementing the `IShuffleAlgorithm` interface *must* implement a method matching this method header.  ***HOW*** the class acomplishes this is not important, only that it does it.  the `ref` keyword here means **pass-by-reference**, that is, this method will make changes to the `deck` and those changes will be done to the `deck` in the scope where this method was called.  It wouldn't do much good if you shuffled the deck but only did it to a copy of the deck in the `Shuffle` method scope!

## RandomShuffler : IShuffleAlgorithm
Shuffles cards randomly by swapping cards in the deck.

### Properties
* *rand* : Random                     Random Number Generator used in this algorithm. (protected)
* IterationCount : int                Number of Iterations through the deck that the algorithm shuffles.  

### Methods
* Shuffle(ref List<Card> deck)        Makes random swaps throughout the deck by choosing two indexes at random and swaping them.  Algorithm swaps `IterationCount * deck.Count` times.

## RiffleShuffler : IShuffleAlgorithm
Simulates the [Riffle Shuffle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shuffling#Riffle) method of shuffling cards

### Properties
* *rand* : Random                     Random Number Generator.
* Repetitions : int                   How many repetitions of the Riffle Shuffle will you perform?  (There are some statistical models for an optimum number~)

### Methods
* Shuffle(ref List<Card> deck)        Very different algorithm to the Random Shuffler!  
